# Music-Recommendation
In today’s digital world, music recommendation systems have become like the user’s musical sidekick, changing the way users explore vast libraries of tunes. This paper dives into the many reasons why these systems matter, shining a light on how they make one’s music experiences more personal, helping the users discover new tracks, and ensure they’re happy music enthusiasts. The music recommendation can be used to analyze the genres people listen to, the trends of music over a period of time and mainly recommend different songs to the users for them to continue staying on that particular application. The data gathered is first cleaned and an exploratory data analysis is performed on this. To build the recommendation system, we will use different content-based filtering techniques like K-Nearest Neighbors, Decision Tree Classifier, Random Forest Classifier, Logistic Regression and TF-IDF. Taking different features into account like the genre, year, beat, these models help recommend music to the users. Metrics including recommendation accuracy, diversity, and user input will be used to determine the system’s efficiency. The music recommendation system can be used to enhance the experience of listeners by recommending songs that fit their tastes based on similar songs. It will boost the user engagement as it personalizes the listening experience by creating a dynamic and entertaining music discovery journey for the users. This subsequently leads to the discovery of a variety of artists, songs and even languages according to the user’s preferences.
